well it's a beautiful morning here in
team but I'm actually cutting my ski
trip short to head north to San Quentin
to indulge in another one of my sporting
passions cycling now this race that I'm
going to they call it the Perry Roubaix
challenge is a classic race over
cobblestones 32 kilometres of cobbles
and have a look at these so conditions
I've absolutely no idea why I'm doing it
sucker for punishment
a seven-hour drive north from the Alps
and luckily the weather is equally as
good it's a whole weekend of racing the
public races on the Saturday and then
we'll get to watch the pros tackle the
course on the Sunday well it's Friday
morning and I'm going to go out on a
reconnaissance of the course and I've
hooked up with someone quite specialist
Team Sky and we've got a bus here and
they're actually gonna go out on a ride
the track as well and they've done this
journalist thing where journalists can
tag along for the first bit of their
ride but apparently when they hit the
first section of pave which is the
French roads with cobbles they're just
going to put the hammer down and do it
at race pace so I don't recommend be
hanging with him for too long a quick
photo shoot before we got started and to
be honest the pros looked much more
relaxed than us my biggest worry was
touching a wheel and knocking one of
them off I could just see the headlines
BBC journalist injures Bradley Wiggins
but my fears were unfounded before I
knew it I was confident enough to start
playing around with my mini cameras
riding with Team Sky oh yeah
around the cobbles
it's amazing how the speed just drops
off pretty dusty but very very lucky
that it's dry experienced all-rounder
and domestic Canadian Michael berry
showed me how it was done on the
roughest section of the course the
Farida Arenberg when i had a go it felt
like my arms were going to come off how
I was going to keep this up in
tomorrow's challenge I had no idea but
tonight I was going to be dreaming of
pave as with all these public races the
sportif starts very very earliest like
about 7:30 in the morning in San Quentin
and I'm actually riding with these guys
from Pinarello
and the bike that they've left me to
ride on is a specially designed for the
parody Roubaix it's got a typical to set
up at the back here so it's got slightly
longer wheelbase to help you bounce over
the cobbles a bit better that's where
the rear triangles bent away like this
and the porter go off at that angle so
I'm actually riding with Andrea
Pinarello and he looks a bit tasty so
we're trying to hang with him as long as
I can and yeah we'll see how we do
so that's they've started the race but
there's 3,000 people to get going so
takes a little time before you actually
go over the start line challenge
now they're saying everyone off in waves
of about 500 attack I'm just a string
people out on the road otherwise
everyone would hit that first section of
cobblestones and it would be a big
logjam
there was a slight headwind for the
first road section of the ride which
made things easy if you could stay in
the slipstream of the group once we hit
the pave though it was every man for
himself but power that you need to put
in is about double back to the tarmac
you need to keep your hands loose as
possible on the handlebars it's too much
to ride on the drops and resting on the
brake levers is definitely not a good
idea
most people ride on the crown of the
road but you can find some smoother
lines you right in the gutter or even on
the grass verge so we're about 50
kilometers to the finish we've got
another 10 more No another 6 more
sections of pave to go and the bike is
holding up and I'm just about holding up
Andrea wants to get going again
it's just absolutely flat out of the
part of a feeling rather weary with
aching hands shoulders and legs are
limped across the finish line
Wow
ha well that's quite a challenge it
feels like you've sound a jackhammer all
day trying to work a chainsaw
it's amazing how tough it is and we only
did I think 145 kilometers and 32
kilometers of pave tomorrow the pros are
going to ride 258 kilometers with 53
kilometers of pave that's why they call
it the hell of the north Wow